# Beach-reviews
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/kBADT26JDbI>
#### Description:
    This project idea came from a simple conversation with a friend where we were discussing
the similarities between making a bet and going to the beach in Brazil. Sometimes google images are misleading
and the beach you are planning on going is not that amazing. You can encounter lots of pollution, lots of crowd and issues with safety. You can also be going to a beach that is far away from everything (being it good or bad) and you did expect something else. The idea of this project is to simply gather information from people that have already gone to any specific beach in Brazil to make a review about it in several different parameters. You´ll be able to evaluate the pollution of the beach(being it: visual, sound and trash), if there are restaurants near by, if there is a huge crowd or not, the water quality(if there is any sewer that goes to that water or not is important), the agressivness o the waves, the accessibilty of the beach(consider old people, children and etc.), the facilities around the beach(hospitals, hotels, markets) and a personal comment as well adding anything found necessary. This parameters will all be saved in the sql table called reviews.
    The beach-reviews project is a web-application made using python, javascript and HTML. In the main file (app.py) the
code will be very simple, first we start by configuring application, then configuring session to use file system, we link the project.db file (the sql table) and then we start making the routes that the app will have. The first route will be '/' (aka home) there will be no extra code added to it, it will only render the home.html template. Another possible route is the '/mreview'(aka make review). In this route there will be extra code added to it because we are going to receive input from the user in a form. Firstly check the method, if the method is via POST, we will have to use users input, hence the form. The form contains 10 inputs, being all the parameters previously stated. In the python code we must check if there is input and if the input is in the correct format as we want. For example the pollution parameter must be an integer from 1 to 10 else it must warn the user it is incorrect. Therefore, for every mistake the user make while submimting the form the code will render the error.html template. If all information is correct the code will use the command db.execute to insert all information made by the user in the sql table, once all that is possible the user will be redirected to the main page ('/'). For the only other possible route, the '/sreview' (aka see reviews) is a pretty simple code as well. It will only select all parameters entered by all users in the past and return it in the sreviews.html template, this way everyone going to this route will be able to see all previous reviews and all previous parameters.
    The sql part of the web-app is pretty simple, it is only one table with all the parameters stated above. The
parameters that accept integers from 1 to 10 are the pollution, restaurants, crowd, water quality, waves aggressivness, accessibility and the facilities. In the table there is also a personal comment, a state and the name of the beach, those three accept text inputs not equal to null. And lastly there is a timestamp so that we can order reviews made by date and all reviews are numbered with a primary key as well. These are all the collumns of the sql table.
    For the templates of the web-app we will have a total of 5 html files in which i am going to talk about one by one.
The main html file is called layout.html, it is where the html code is always running, which means that all the othe html files extend this layout.html file using jinja. The layout file consists of head and body. In the head part, we first make so that the app is also mmobile user friendly by editing the viewport. Then, we reference both bootstrap links for more templates and we reference our css file called style.css. After referencing everything needed we make the title using jinja as well. Since the title will change for every route in which we are the only thing that stays the same is that it will always start with 'Beach-reviews:'. After making the title and referencing we move to the body of the layout file. In the body we created a simple dropdown menu from bootstrap so that the user can navigate through the web-app using it. The dropdown menu will have 3 options, Home, make review and see reviews. Every single option when clicked, will redirect the user to the acording route. Since we want the user to be able to go to every route from every route, this part of the code will be used in every html file (all html file extends this one, so all of them will also have a dropdown menu). After making the dropdown menu we open a div so that we can use jinja in this div to adapt according to the route the user is in. There is a total of 4 possible different routes the user can go, make a review, see all reviews, the error message, and home.
    For the make a review route: firstly we use a jinja block to add to the title the name of the route. Then, since we
want to accept user input we have created a form with a total of 10 inputs, one for every parameter in the sql table. After doing this form we add a button with type submit. After pressing that button there are 2 possible routes, if everything goes to plan, the user is redirected to home and from there can do anything, or, there is a mistake in the form and the user is redirected to '/error'.
    In error.html: this is template is rendered if the user commits any mistake in the form. It is pretty simple it only
has a heading centralized warning the user of an error in his form and an image just for design purpose. The image and the heading are in the same class so that in the style.css file we can make both of them centrally aligned (for design purposes as well).
    In sreviews.html: it will again edit the title. Secondly, i thought that a nice way of showing all parameters together
a table would fit very well. So, I have import a table design from bootstrap, added a collumn for every parameter and in the rows section we use other jinja feature which is passing variable from one file to another. From app.py we passed a variable called reviews which simply selects all parameters we want the user to be able to see then we pass this variable to the html file. In the html file, inside the table, for every single review made, there will be a row with all the parameters shown (for review in reviews).
    Lastly but not least, the home.html file: This file is also pretty small since the idea of the project was to be
simple, effective and helpful. The home html file edits the title as well to 'Beach-revies: Home'. It has a heading called 'Project', a small paragraph explaining a little bit about the idea and under it a nice image from a beach in Rio de Janeiro so that the user can understand all the beaches reviewed are brazilians.
    This is my final project from cs50.